What happens when you initialize a repository? Why do you need to do it?

It creates a hidden directory (.git) which contains all the metadata used for managing my repository.
I need to do this, to tell git, that this is a folder I want use version control in to differentiate it from 
a "normal" folder. 

---

How is the staging area different from the working directory and the repository? What value do you think it offers?

The staging area holds the files I want to include into my next commit.
For example if I changed 3 files and I only want to commit the changes to 2 of them, I would add only those two
and the commit would not include the third file. 
However, the file is still present in my working directory.  The changes of that third file will not be commited to the repository. 

---

How can you use the staging area to make sure you have one commit per logical change?

The staging area allows me to decide which of my changed files I want to include in the next commit.
Let's say, I have changed to files. But the changes don't really belong to the same logical change. So 
instead of committing the changes to both files in just one commit, I can first stage just the first file,
commit it and afterwards do the same thing for the second file.  

---

What are some situations when branches would be helpful in keeping your history organized? How would branches help?

When I'm working on experimental features, I don't want to directly commit them to the main project (master branch). 
Instead I can try everything out on my experimental or feature branch and later merge it into the master after 
everything is properly tested. 
Also it allows me to have different versions of the same project that I can easily switch to (by checking out that branch). This way, I can, for instance, show my friends an alternative version of the a game. 
Branching also helps me keep the history clear: Small changes to an experimental feature that I'm not working on won't clutter my history (log). Instead the first time I'll be confronted with that feature is after merging. 

---

How do the diagrams help you visualize the branch structure?

The diagrams visualize the branch structure in a DAG. This help me easily see some kind of timeline 
for all the commits on every branch. It also helps me when exactly a branch happened and when it was merged again.
Additionally, because of the fact that it is directed graph, I can easily see the reachability. This also
helps me understand the DETACHED HEAD STATE (I have checked out an unlabeled commit). If I commit from here and don't create a new branch at this commit, the commit is not reachable and therefore lost. 

